2021-03-03
Alexander Thomas Mol Holmquist

MD-TP3 project task 1 of phase 1 of CRISP-DM
--------------------------------------------------------------------

I plan to adapt the CRISP-DM model to the college educational
context as much as possible. In this case though, I will have to
neglect some recommendations that relate directly to organizational
issues.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Area of knowledge at focus by the project: health, medicine,
oncology, dermatology.

The problem at hand:
  Generate a benign / malign cancer classifier. That is, we want to
  be able to tell, from a photo taken by a medical practitioner, if
  a skin segment of the patient is a malign or a benign cancer.
  The actual motive behind the project is educational...

There are already many solutions to the problem, including a very
  powerful machine learning model made by Stanford artificial
  intelligence laboratory researchers.

Business questions:

  1. (primary objective) What are the key characteristics of a
  malign cancer, based on the obtained data sample?
  
  2. How much can we trust a simple model such as this for detecting
  cancer? This is a question that could determine the initiative for
  future data mining projects within a company. I also wanted to
  know how useful is a model that only has a small dataset to mess
  around. I mean, if you have 130k examples, you are obviously going
  to do so much better... but isn't the small one already a big
  improvement?
  
  3. How useful is it to produce a simple model that can test the
  viability of having a data mining project in an organization? Is
  it ok to spend, say, one week, developing a simplified version of
  some model, and using maybe only a subset of the data (remember
  that the data I proposed is only a subset of a very large sample
  of cancer images provided by that international organization),
  just so that the resources of the business are tested? For
  example, personell qualification, hardware capabilities, data
  mining team cohesion, data understanding.

Success criteria:

  1. Get a picture or a set of pictures that represent the key
  features of a malign skin cancer.

  2. Find a satisfactory answer.

  3. Find a satisfactory answer.
